README.md, before:

Provisional
===========

Provisional is a tool to manage and provision server images.
It is designed to make building immutable servers easier,
by automating the process of image creation.

Images are created based on other images (such as an AWS AMI).
You define scripts that are run to install and configure any required software.

You can then provision your images to deploy your application.

Provisional currently works only with Digital Ocean,
but can easily be extended to work with other providers.


## Installation

You'll need Ruby (2.0 or later) installed on your local system.

Install Provisional with Rubygems:

~~~ bash
gem install provisional
~~~


## Usage

Provisional is meant to be used from within your application development directory.

~~~ bash
provisional init                    # Create config/provisional/config.yml
provisional image list              # List images (including all versions)
provisional image create image-name # Create an image
provisional image update image-name # Update an image (or all images)
provisional deploy                  # Deploy all images, per config file
~~~


## Why Not Docker?

Docker is overly complex for simple application architectures.
There are a lot of coordination pieces (Fleet, Kubernetes, etc.) required.
We can also store our images with the provider instead of in our own Docker infrastructure.
That said, nothing prevents you from running Docker on top of the VM images you create with Provisional.
You might also be able to adapt Provisional to create Docker images.


## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies.
Then, run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`.
To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`,
and then run `bundle exec rake release` to create a git tag for the version,
push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [RubyGems].


## Contributing

1. Fork the [project repo].
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`).
3. Make sure tests pass (`cucumber` and `rspec`).
4. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`).
5. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`).
6. Create a new [pull request].


[project repo]: https://github.com/boochtek/ruby_preserves/fork
[pull request]: https://github.com/boochtek/ruby_preserves/pulls
[RubyGems]: https://rubygems.org

Commit message:

README: Add note that this is a work in progress
The code is a real mess. I don't want people to think that I normally write
code this poorly organized. Several things have contributed to the mess:

* DropletKit API is not all all object-oriented; it's task-oriented/procedural.
* I'm exploring how to get this working.
* I'm on a tight deadline to get a proof of concept out for my conference talk.

README.md, after:

Provisional
===========

Provisional is a tool to manage and provision server images.
It is designed to make building immutable servers easier,
by automating the process of image creation.

Images are created based on other images (such as an AWS AMI).
You define scripts that are run to install and configure any required software.

You can then provision your images to deploy your application.

Provisional currently works only with Digital Ocean,
but can easily be extended to work with other providers.


## Installation

You'll need Ruby (2.0 or later) installed on your local system.

Install Provisional with Rubygems:

~~~ bash
gem install provisional
~~~


## Usage

Provisional is meant to be used from within your application development directory.

~~~ bash
provisional init                    # Create config/provisional/config.yml
provisional image list              # List images (including all versions)
provisional image create image-name # Create an image
provisional image update image-name # Update an image (or all images)
provisional deploy                  # Deploy all images, per config file
~~~


## Why Not Docker?

Docker is overly complex for simple application architectures.
There are a lot of coordination pieces (Fleet, Kubernetes, etc.) required.
We can also store our images with the provider instead of in our own Docker infrastructure.
That said, nothing prevents you from running Docker on top of the VM images you create with Provisional.
You might also be able to adapt Provisional to create Docker images.


## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies.
Then, run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`.
To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`,
and then run `bundle exec rake release` to create a git tag for the version,
push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [RubyGems].


## Contributing

1. Fork the [project repo].
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`).
3. Make sure tests pass (`cucumber` and `rspec`).
4. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`).
5. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`).
6. Create a new [pull request].


## TODO

Note that this is currently a work in progress. Much remains to be done.

- Refactor to put an OOP layer above the DropletKit layer.
- Move Digital Ocean support to an adapter.
  - Add an adapter for AWS.


[project repo]: https://github.com/boochtek/ruby_preserves/fork
[pull request]: https://github.com/boochtek/ruby_preserves/pulls
[RubyGems]: https://rubygems.org
